---
layout: post
title: The future of Social is Privacy?
category: posts
---

I believe that social media needs a re-branding! Nowadays, with Prism coming to light as NSA's "Big Brother" and constant bombardment of advertising, spam, and crap all over the place, I think that social will actually be private.

When Facebook came out, I was an early adopter - I missed the My Space craze and wanted something to call my own. I got my profile, right, became an advocate, was even excited when my non-techie sister joined the army...and then I stopped.

I didn't care, - not about my friends, those folks are the best - about constantly portraying a fancy life I lived with pictures of crazy nights on the town, fabulous vacations, and overall vanity of the Facebook existence. When I was at a bar, most of my close friends were there too and posting a picture of our good time seemed useless. It didn't evoke a feeling for doing something "cool" but instead seemed empty, shallow, and unpleasant. With months that followed caused me to become more and more estranged from Facebook because I realized that I was spending more time watching my friend's profile then my own, looking at their vacation pictures and their nights out. It didn't seem right to me.

This was several years ago and I have been Facebook free since then, which turns out to be quite enjoyable. Now I understand that a Facebook-free life is not for everyone, some have family who are far away while others have friends all over the world, there are business purposes to Facebook to promote special events and have the option to target all their fans. Such features are the reason why Social Media has entered our life - why it became important. I get it, I just don't buy it.
 
The reason Socail will become private is because we will, as a whole, go against the grain of trends eventually. Right now we are in an episode of hyper sharing, letting everyone who cares to see our every desire, our every move, our lives as we live them in the analog world. However, in the near future, this will not be enough. We will not only want to share our thoughts but want to share it with only specific people, specific family members, and no one else. We will not want to make our profiles "private" and go through the hustle of securing everything and everything, we just want it to work, but work the way we envision it.

Yes, I know there are services like Path that marketed their social media platform this way, but they were way too early - we weren't ready for a private life, just yet. Considering the cloud, instant share, and all the other junk this seems like its so counterintuitive almost bordering on the impossible. But so did Social prior to 2005. In 2015, do you believe we will be sharing the same way we do now? I don't. I think there will be sharing but privately, cautiously, with only our trusted friends.

Who knows if I'm right or wrong, this is all speculation, but I think Private will soon have its 15 minutes of fame. 


Thanks for reading.


---

[jekyll]: https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll
[zh]: http://zachholman.com
[left]: https://github.com/holman/left#readme
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/bardworx


