---
layout: post
title: Going to Work like a Hobby	
category: posts
---

Lately, I've been giving a lot of thought to the prospect of working as a hobby. It's an interesting proposition; to work as a hobby in comparison to work for money, I mean, can it even be done? How rare must it be to work at a job that you love, and enjoy going to...as if it was your hobby?

Working in a very large metropolitan city, I have the enormous pleasure of spending two hours on my commute to/from work. During such times, I usually read, or update my to-do list, or even play a game on my phone - but I also people watch. Every now and again, I start judging people based on their clothes and the way they carry themselves, trying to match up their particular personality to a possible job they have. I'm probably always wrong but its a fun game, you should try it sometime. Then I took it a step further - could I judge, based on their looks/attire, their happiness level? 

After some consideration, I forgot about the people and started examining myself; can you judge by my look, if I'm happy? Better yet, am I happy?

An hour later, as I was arriving at work with a cup of coffee, an empty office, and a question looming over my mind I realized that YES I am happy. I'm not happy because life is wonderful and there are puppies, kittens, and butterflies all over the world, but because I was getting paid to do something that I always did for **free**. Now I'm sure there are a lot of other people who absolutely enjoy work - professional athletes, musicians, performers, computer programmers, accountants, educators, and numerous other professions - but I'm sure more people do thier job for the money then **work as a hobby**.

I'm sure that a lot of people are thinking that it's not realistic or that my views are not balanced with the "real" world but I say Forget You MAN! Why shouldn't I try my best to provide for my family while enjoying work? 

My wife thinks I'm an eternal optimist, which is partially true, but still, no reason to hate your life while working. 



Thank for reading.

---

[jekyll]: https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll
[zh]: http://zachholman.com
[left]: https://github.com/holman/left#readme
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/bardworx
